Let's talk about component
driven architecture.
The idea in and of itself is not super,
I think we don't have to
do too many leaps of logic,
that we simply divide our application
into small encapsulated pieces
of software that can be reused
in many different contexts.
So Angular, fortunately, strongly
encourages this by making it easy and
in a lot of ways necessary to build out
every feature of an app as a component.
And so we can think of Angular components
as these kind of self encapsulated
building blocks that contain their
own templates, styles and logic.
So you can pick them up and
you can move them elsewhere.
Also not in the slide, but
I will point this out, is not only does
it contain logic, but more importantly is
that you can write them in a way
that they do not contain logic.
And that's even better.
So if we look at the anatomy
of a component and
how that component work together,
we can see that
obviously we have property bindings and
event bindings.
And the question that I have is,
what if we could define custom
properties and events to bind to?
So, hm, do you think that's possible?
Well, I've tricked everybody because
it is, you walked right into that trap,
oldest trick in the book.
So we can create custom data
binding on our events and
our properties in the form of @inputs and
@outputs.
And so I've prepared a little
slideshow to illustrate this point.
When you have a parent and a child
component, where is the surface area?
Where do they intersect, On the template?
So if you want to put a component
on the page of an application,
how do you do that?
Well, you add it to a template,
so that it can then be
instantiated and
become part of the application.
So in this case,
we have a parent class and
a child class and they share a template.
And so this is the relationship,
we're separating the overlap and
from within the child component,
we have a template and
a child class and
this is standard event property binding.
So from here, if I want to take
a property from the child class and
I wanna render in the template,
I just use property binding.
If I want to capture
an event from the template,
then I will add that or
I'll capture that into the child class.
Now, on the other hand,
from the parent component,
if I want to put something into the child,
I do that via @input.
And if I want to capture something that's
happening from the child into the parent,
that is an @output.
So I think thankfully, the English
language has not completely broken down,
in that we're putting data in,
we're getting data out.
And so this is, at a high level,
this is what this looks,
is we're passing data into
our class via an @input and
we're getting it out via an @output and
I realized that these are backwards.
I'm not gonna fix this, but
I will update this a bit later.
So an @input allows data to flow from
a parent component to a child component.
And we use the @input decorator and
then we bind to it in the parent template.
So in this case, we have a component
that has an @input of greeting and
we are going to render that using
string interpolation in the template.
And then in the parent component, we are
able to pass that in, whatever greeting
that may be, into the child component
via property bindings as an @input.
Now an @output, how this works
is because using event binding,
we're binding to a native DOM event.
Well, we can use the EventEmitter,
so it essentially is
an instance of the EventEmitter
that we expose the EventEmitter so
that when we want to trigger it,
we can call EventEmitter.emit.
And so what we're doing is
we're basically dispatching or
emitting an action from the child
into the parent as an @output.
So in this case, you can see here that
we have an @output of greeter and
it is an instance of EventEmitter.
And when we want to emit that,
then we do this.greeter.emit,
and we pass the value in that we want
to surface or bubble up to our parent,
and then we're able to bind to
this just like a normal event.
And you notice that it's greet and
then $event for the payload.
And what this does, so
we've kind of focused in, but
I wanna zoom out just a bit.
That why this is important is
because we are now able to establish
an agreement between a parent
component and a child component or
between a component and
anything that wants to use it.
So this is in a sense
a component contract.
So this is where, essentially,
it's an agreement between the supplier and
the consumer.
And our inputs and
our outputs work as essentially the API
interface for that component.
Also, it works really well
as kind of a visual cue
about how to interface and
interact with a component.
So one thing that I'm not
going to get into much but
I'm going to just offer
a small comment on is
that when we look at Angular and,
by extension,
React and modern web frameworks,
it is allowed us,
given us the opportunity to
turn our HTML into a DSL.
Meaning we can create
markup that adopts all of
the semantics of our
particular business domain.
And so, what this means is that you can
have a non-technical stakeholder look
at some markup, and they can say,
well, I know what an items list is,
or I know what a contracts list or
whatever it is, they can look.
And because you're adopting semantics
that are familiar to that domain,
non-technical stakeholders can
look at even markup or code.
And it's very easy for them to kind
of make sense of what's happening.
By even defining the specific inputs or
properties that you can use
to hydrate that component, as well as
the things that that component can do,
i.e., the events or the outputs, is that.
Imagine you had an application for
law and you had a client and
it's like they were able
to omit a litigate event.
Well, that doesn't mean much to me but
in the context of maybe a law firm,
when that event is omitted, that means
something, it's very meaningful to them.
So it's important to at least register
that by using inputs and outputs and
component driven architecture.
Is just a natural byproduct,
we are able to establish a domain-specific
language for our application which I
think is, it's really, really powerful.
And I will say this,
that a lot of times there's pushback from
engineers about getting non-technical
stakeholders involved at the code level.
So for instance,
I really like Cucumber when I'm doing
automated end-to-end testing
because I can establish or
define my specs in
a natural language that is
very similar to how you
would speak something.
As a user, when I log in,
I should be on this page.
And so, this allows for product owners and
stakeholders to look at these
Cucumber specs and they serve this
kind of documentation or
acceptance criteria for how that works.
Same thing with these components.
The pushback is that, well, nobody would
ever do this or I'd never seen it.
And I think for me the question
that I immediately go to is,
well, how would they have seen it?
That we historically do not create
opportunities for non-technical
stakeholders to interact with
engineering in kind of a meaningful way.
Is that we create kind of these secret
handshakes that you got to come to
the back door and
knock a certain way to be led in.
When I think, as engineers,
we should endeavor to make the code that
we write and the things that we
do to be as approachable and
as understandable as it can be to
everybody within the organization,
starting from our stakeholders,
but ultimately to our end users.
So I don't know where that came from,
but I feel very strongly about it.
So, now, what this allows us to do,
queue container presentation components.
I've been waiting all day
to answer this question, or
at least fulfill this request.
This allows us to create nice,
neat containers with
clearly defined data flows from
the parent to the child and back.
So this is container and presentational
components, aka, historically,
it was smart and dumb, components
apparently that, I think what happened
is it really offended a lot of smart
people and they didn't like that.
So it said stop disparaging me when
you're talking about smart components.
I'm totally kidding,
that's hilarious to me,
I'll laugh about it when I'm off camera.
But container components
are your kind of large
components that they are responsible for,
I would say,
collecting the data to make available to
its child or presentational components.
And presentational components,
on the other hand,
are small very specific components
that are defined by their bindings.
And so you can think of that
all data goes in as inputs,
every change comes out is an output.
And you want to create as few
container components as possible and
as many presentational components
as possible or appropriate.
And so,
this is a presentational component.
We'll kind of build this out in a moment.
But you can see here,
there's not a lot happening.
It's just data bindings.
On the other hand, this is what
a container component looks like.
So this is more responsible for
one interfacing with an external
service to get the data or to establish
the query side of the command query cycle.
As well as issue commands or
execute or call methods on services
to handle the business logic
outside of the component.
So, what this means is
state flows down.
So you have a container component
that's saying get all the data and
then it's taking bits and pieces of the
data, some of the data, and saying, here,
you get this component or this data,
and component, you get this data.
And it's consuming just enough
to render the templates,
but then it's also responsible for
segmenting it out so that the individual
presentational components are getting
the data that they need as well as they
have the ability to surface
the appropriate events for that component.
So, state flows down, and events flow up.
So, within a presentation component,
it says hey, here's this event, route it,
do something with it.
And then in the container component,
it's saying, hey, process this event.
And here is the kicker of the whole thing.
So remember, state flows down,
events flow up.
You basically understand redux.
So double WAT.
And this is true,
because remember I said at a mezzo or
medium level,
component driven architecture
is a representation of
a pattern that exists
across various scopes
within the application,
kind of structure itself from a micro
interaction to a macro concern.